>> Ifill: AN INTERNAL PROBE OF
THE VETERANS HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
HAS FOUND MORE THAN 50,000
PATIENTS ROUTINELY RELEGATED TO
LONG WAITING LISTS FOR CARE,
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
WE DEBATE THE DEPTH OF THE
PROBLEM AND THE PROPOSED
SOLUTIONS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, IN
PAKISTAN, DOZENS ARE KILLED AND
HOPES FOR PEACE TALKS ARE DASHED
AFTER THE TALIBAN ATTACKS A
MAJOR AIRPORT.
>> Ifill: PLUS, THE POLITICAL
SEESAW OVER EDUCATION STANDARDS
KNOWN AS COMMON CORE, AS IT IS
PLAYING OUT IN ONE KEY STATE:
LOUISIANA.
>> ORIGINALLY A MAJORITY OF
STATES SIGNED ON TO COMMON CORE
BUT EARLIER THIS YEAR INDIANA
WAS THE FIRST TO BACK OUT AND
NOW AS OPPOSITION GROWS HERE IN
LOUISIANA SOME STATE LAWMAKERS
HAVE PUSHED TO DO THE SAME.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: SHELLING RIPPED
INTO THE EASTERN UKRAINIAN CITY
OF SLAVIANSK FOR A SECOND DAY,
IN FIGHTING BETWEEN GOVERNMENT
FORCES AND PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS.
MORTAR FIRE LEFT A TRAIL OF
DESTRUCTION THROUGHOUT THE CITY,
DAMAGING SEVERAL BUILDINGS.
IT ALSO LEFT MANY PEOPLE
PLEADING FOR A PEACEFUL
RESOLUTION.
>> THIS WILL NEVER END.
THEY WILL END THE SHOOTING ONLY
WHEN THEY WIPE US FROM THE FACE
OF THE PLANET, WHEN NOTHING
REMAINS HERE BUT A FLAT SPACE.
ONLY THEN THE WAR WILL BE
FINISHED.
>> Woodruff: JUST YESTERDAY,
NEWLY INSTALLED PRESIDENT PETRO
POROSHENKO ANNOUNCED THE START
OF NEGOTIATIONS INVOLVING HIS
GOVERNMENT, RUSSIA AND EUROPEAN
SECURITY MONITORS.
>> Ifill: IN IRAQ, A DOUBLE
BOMBING TORE THROUGH KURDISH
POLITICAL OFFICES, IN A STRING
OF ATTACKS THAT KILLED AT LEAST
40 PEOPLE.
IT CAME A DAY AFTER SIMILAR
BOMBINGS ON SUNDAY.
TODAY'S TOOK PLACE IN THE TOWN
OF TUZ KHORMATO, ABOUT 130 MILES
NORTH OF BAGHDAD.
LOCAL OFFICIALS SAID A SUICIDE
BOMBER DRA FILLED WITH
EXPLOSIVES TO A CHECKPOINT.
A SECOND TRUCK BLEW UP AS PEOPLE
RAN TO THE SCENE.
>> Woodruff: IN SYRIA, PRESIDENT
BASHAR AL-ASSAD GRANTED A
WIDE-RANGING AMNESTY TODAY.
HE REDUCED JAIL TERMS FOR MANY
CRIMES AND CANCELED SOME
ALTOGETHER, BUT IT WAS UNCLEAR
JUST HOW MANY PRISONERS WOULD BE
FREED.
ASSAD HAS ISSUED SEVERAL
AMNESTIES SINCE THE UPRISING
AGAINST HIM BEGAN IN 2011.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT CAME LESS
THAN A WEEK AFTER HIS RE-
ELECTION.
>> Ifill: POLICE IN BRAZIL
FOUGHT TODAY WITH SUBWAY WORKERS
WHO WALKED OFF THE JOB, JUST AS
A FLOOD OF TOURISTS BEGIN
ARRIVING FOR THE WORLD CUP.
IT WAS THE LATEST SIGN OF
TROUBLE IN THE RUN-UP TO THE
MOST POPULAR SPORTING EVENT ON
THE PLANET.
DAN RIVERS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISIREPORT.
>> AS BRAZIL PREPARES TO WELCOME
THE WORLD THREE DAYS BEFORE KICK
OFF, THIS WAS THE SCENE IN SAO
PAULO.
RIOT POLICE FIRED TEAR GAS AT
STRIKING METRO WORKERS WHOSE
WALKOUT HAS BROUGHT BRAZIL'S
LARGEST CITY TO A STANDSTILL AT
THE WORST POSSIBLE TIME.
BUT THERE AREN'T JUST PROBLEMS
HERE.
IN RIO, THE SMOLDERING THREAT OF
GANG VIOLENCE IS JUST ONE
CHALLENGE.
WE FOUND THIS BURNING CAR ON THE
MAIN ROAD FROM THE AIRPORT IN
ONE OF THE CITY'S TOUGHEST
NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT WAS SET ABLAZE BY FEUDING
DEALERS.
THE ARMY GAVE US EXCLUSIVE
ACCESS TO THE SPRAWLING SLUM
KNOWN AS MARRE.
FLACK JACKETS ARE ADVISABLE
HERE.
TODAY SOLDIERS WERE SHOT AT BY
GANG MEMBERS IN THIS AREA.
2,400 TROOPS ARE DEPLOYED HERE
TO QUELL GANG VIOLENCE.
FEAR AND FOOTBALL ON STREETS FEW
OUTSIDERS WOULD DARE TO WALK
ALONG.
BUT IT'S NOT JUST GANG VIOLENCE
THAT'S THREATENING TO DISRUPT
THE WORLD CUP.
THERE'S  M
AND UNREST AT THE AMOUNT OF
MONEY BEING SPENT ON THE EVENT.
WHAT SHOULD BE A SPORTING
CELEBRATION, HAS BECOME DEEPLY
CONTROVERSIAL.
SOME ARE PREPARING TO PARTY.
BUT IS THIS COUNTRY REALLY READY
FOR THE GIANTS OF THE FOOTBALL
WORLD AND HALF A MILLION FANS.
THEY CERTAINLY LOVE THE
BEAUTIFUL GAME LIKE NOWHERE
ELSE.
BUT CAN THEY DO IT JUSTICE AS
HOSTS?
>> Ifill: READY OR NOT, THE
COMPETITION BEGINS THURSDAY,
WHEN BRAZIL PLAYS CROATIA IN THE
OPENING MATCH.
>> Ifill: ON WALL STREET TODAY,
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED MORE THAN 18 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 16,943, ANOTHER NEW
RECORD.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 14
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,336.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED THE
BETTER PART OF TWO POINTS TO
FINISH AT 1,951, ALSO A RECORD.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
NEW DETAILS REVEAL THE SCOPE OF
THE PROBLEMS PLAGUING THE
VETERANS ADMINISTRATION;
THE TALIBAN STRIKES A MAJOR
AIRPORT IN PAKISTAN;
A FIGHT IN LOUISIANA OVER
EDUCATION STANDARDS;
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PUSH TO EASE
THE BURDEN OF STUDENT LOANS;
AND FROM "BREAKING BAD" TO
L.B.J.
WE TALK WITH NOW TONY AWARD
WINNER, BRYAN CRANSTON.
>> THE WHITE HOUSE CONDEMNED A
DEADLY ATTACK OVERNIGHT BY THE
PAKISTANI TAB BAN AT THEIR
COUNTRY'S BUSIEST AIRPORT, THE
REPORT IS THE GROUPS ASSAULT AND
FIGHTING WITH GOVERNMENT FORCES
LEFT DOZENS DEAD.
>> JUST BEFORE MIDNIGHT, CLOUDS
OF SMOKE ROSE ABOVE THE
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
AND THERE WAS GUNFIRE TOO.
IT WAS CLEAR THAT SOMETHING HAD
GONE TERRIBLY WRONG IN KARACHI.
FIERY SCENES WERE CAPTURED BY
THE COUNTRY'S TIRELESS NEWS
CHANNELS.
HEAVILY HARMED INSURGENTS FROM
THE PAKISTAN TALIBAN HAD STORMED
THE AIRP
ACCORDING TO THEIR SPOKESMAN,
THEY WANTED TO HIJACK A PLANE,
AND SEEK REVENGE FOR THE DEATH
OF THEIR LEADER IN A DRONE
STRIKE.
IT WAS A WELL PLANNED ATTACK.
THE MILITANTS DRESSED AS AIRPORT
SECURITY, EVADING CHECKPOINTS ON
THE PERIMETER.
THEN FOUGHT THEIR WAY INTO
TERMINAL ONE.
OFFICIALS SAID THEY APPROACHED A
NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT AS WELL.
"IT'S A COWARDLY ACT BY THE
TERRORISTS," SAID THIS POLICE
CHIEF.
KARACHI HOSTS PAKISTAN'S BIGGEST
AND BUSIEST AIRPORT.
43,000 PEOPLE PASS THROUGH THE
MAIN PASSENGER HUB EVERYDAY.
YET THE MILITANTS TARGETED A
DIFFERENT PART OF THE FACILITY.
THEY INFILTRATED VIA A SIDE
ENTRANCE HERE.
THEN A VAN DROPPED THEM OFF
TERMINAL ONE.
IT'S NOW USED FOR CARGO AND
V.I.P.'S.
AS THE GUN BATTLE RAGED, THE
AUTHORITIES EVACUATED THE
AIRPORT AND CANCELED INCOMING
FLIGHTS.
BUT THAT WASN'T ALL.
TROOPS HAD TO GET PASSENGERS OFF
A NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT THAT WERE
SITTING ON THE TARMAC.
SAIM RIVI WAS ONE OF THEM.
HE USED TWITTER TO EXPRESS
HIMSELF, CURSING, THEN ADDING:
"THEY FIRE ROCKET LAUNCHERS, MAY
GOD PROTECT THE COUNTRY AND
PASSENGERS ON BOARD AS WELL AS
ON THE FLOOR."
A FEW MINUTES LATER, HE TWEETED,
"WE'RE GOING TO BE OFF LOADED
SOON, COMMANDOS ARE ON THE
PLANE. LONG LIVE THE PAKISTAN
ARMY."
THE BATTLE FOR JINNAH
INTERNATIONAL WAS OVER BY
SUNRISE.
MILITARY OFFICIALS SAID THEY'D
KILLED THE INSURGENTS, TEN IN
ALL, ANOTHER 16 HAD ALSO LOST
THEIR LIVES.
A LONG CONVOY TOOK THEIR BODIES
AWAY.
LOCAL RESIDENTS LOOKED ON IN
ALARM.
"THE FIRING WAS SO INTENSE, I
THOUGHT WAR HAD BROKEN OUT
BETWEEN INDIA AND PAKISTAN,"
SAID THIS MAN.
THE AUTHORITIES WERE QUICK TO
CONGRATULATE THEMSELVES.
CAPTURED WEAPONS WERE DISPLAYED
FOR ALL TO SEE, INCLUDING
SEVERAL SUICIDE VESTS, PACKED
WITH EXPLOSIVES.
"WE DID A TREMENDOUS JOB," SAID
THIS REGIONAL CABINET MINISTER.
BUT THE ATTACK HIGHLIGHTS THE
FRAGILE SENSE OF SECURITY HERE.
THE SPRAWLING CITY OF KARACHI
HAS LONG BEEN USED BY MILITANTS
AS A PLACE TO HIDE AND ORGANIZE.
AND A RECENT ATTEMPT BY THE
GOVERNMENT TO NEGOTIATE WITH
THEM HAS FAILED.
OFFICIALS SAID THE AIRPORT WOULD
SOON REOPEN.
BUT FEW WILL FEEL COMPLETELY
SECURE.
PAKISTAN FACES A BRAZEN FOE
PREPARED TO FIGHT TO THE DEATH.
>> Woodruff: THE OFFICIAL
DEATH TOLD CLIMBED TO 29 KILLED
INCLUDING THE TEN ATTACKERS.
FOR MORE ON THE SIEGE AND HOW IT
FITS INTO THE LARGER PICTURE IN
PAKISTAN, WE TURN TO TWO WHO
STUDIED THAT COUNTRY FOR A LONG
TIME.
CHRISTINE FAIR, ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR AT GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY.
HER LATEST BOOK, "FIGHTING TO
THE END:  THE PAKISTAN ARMY'S
WAY OF WAR."
AND SHUJA NAWAZ IS DIRECTOR OF
THE SOUTHEAST ASIA CENTER AT THE
ATLANTIC COUNCIL AND HIS LATEST
BOOK IS "CROSSED SWORDS:
PAKISTAN, ITS ARMY, AND THE WARS
WITHIN."
AND WE WELCOME YOU BOTH BACK TO
THE PROGRAM.
SHUJA NAWAZ, TO YOU, FIRST, WHAT
DOES THIS ATTACK SAY ABOUT THE
STRENGTH OF THE TALIBAN IN THAT
COUNTRY?
>> I THINK THEY HAVE THE
GOVERNMENT ON THE BACK FOOT.
THEY HAVE THE ADVANTAGE THAT
THEY CAN PICK ANY TARGET AND IT
CAN BE A SOFT OR HARD TARGET,
AND THIS CERTAINLY WAS A
SPECTACULAR TARGET.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THEY ACTUALLY
PLANNED TO GO TO THE TERMINAL
WHERE THEY ENDED UP OR WHETHER
IT WAS A MISTAKE ON THEIR PART
OR WHETHER IT WAS THE STRENGTH
OF THE SECOND BURST THAT THEY
ATTACKED WHICH TURNED THEM TO
THE RIGHT INSTEAD OF THETO THE
LEFT.
THIS COULD HAVE BEEN MUCH WORSE
HAD THEY ENDED UP IN THE
INTERNATIONAL TERMINAL WHERE
THERE WERE PLANES LOADED WITH
PASSENGERS.
>> Woodruff: CHRISTINE FAIR,
HOW DO YOU READTH
WHAT DOES IT SAY ABOUT THE
TALIBAN?
>> I THINK IT REALLY SAYS
PAKISTAN AS A COUNTRY HAS SIMPLY
FAILED TO UNDERSTAND THIS
PROBLEM STRATEGICALLY AND TO
DEAL WITH IT.
FOR YEARS, WE HAVE BEEN HAVING
THESE DISCUSSIONS ON YOUR SHOW
AND PAKISTAN'S PROBLEM IS AS IT
HAS BEEN, IT WANTS PART OF THESS
STRATEGIC ASSETS THAT THEY CAN
DEPLOY TO KILL PEOPLE IN
AFGHANISTAN, USUALLY OUR AFGHAN
AND OTHER ALLIES AS WELL AS
INDIANS.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE VERY
ORGANIZATIONS THAT THE I.S.I.
HAVE SPAWNED TO DO ITS
BIDDING --
>> Woodruff: I.S.I. BEING --
THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY OF
PAKISTAN, IS THE ELEMENTS OF
THOSE GROUPS HAVE FORMED THE
PAKISTAN TALIBAN.
WHAT I FIND INTERESTING ABOUT
THE IMMEDIATE DISCOURSE IN
PAKISTAN IS THEY DON'T WANT TO
TALK ABOUT THIS.
THEY WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
MILITANTS BEING FOREIGNERS OR
INDIANS AND THEY'RE TRYING TO
EVERYTHING TAKE TO AVOID A REAL
DISCUSSION IN PAKISTAN ABOUT
THIS BEING A BLOWUP OF
PAKISTAN'S OWN POLICY.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU WERE
TELLING US THIS AFTERNOON IS
THIS WASN'T AN ATTACK THIS
WASN'T CLEARLY WELL EXECUTED
BECAUSE THEY ENDED UP ALL
KILLED.
HOW WELL ORGANIZED DID THEY
SEEM?
SHUJA NAWAZ, YOU SAID THEY
DIDN'T GET TO THE DESTINATION
THEY WERE HEADED FOR.
WHAT DOES IT SAY ABOUT THEM?
>> THEY WEREN'T EXTREMELY WELL
PREPARED.
THE EQUIPMENT THEY HAD -- THERE
WERE REPORTS THEY WERE ALSO
CARRYING INJECTIONS TO ASSIST
COLOOD IF THEY
WERE WOUNDED.
THREE WERE HIND, ONE PAST THE
DEADLINE THE ARMY SAID WAS FREE,
AND AFTERWARD WERE DISCOVERED SO
FIGHTING CONTINUED BEYOND THE
MIDDAY DEADLINE.
SO THEY WERE WELL EQUIPPED.
THIS IS NOT FIRST.
THIS IS MAJOR THE SECOND ATTACK
IN KARACHI THEY LAUNCHED
SUCCESSFULLY.
THE ATTACK IN 2011 WAS ALSO A
SUCCESSFUL ATTACK.
THE GOVERNMENT CAN'T TAKE THIS
LIGHTLY.
I AGREE WITH CHRISTINE THAT THE
NEED TO HAVE A TERROR STRATEGY
AND --
>> Woodruff: THE GOVERNMENT.
-- THE GOVERNMENT TO STOP
LOOKING AT GOOD AND BAD TALIBAN.
THERE ARE NETWORKS, AL QUAIDA AS
WELL AS OTHER TALIBAN THAT ARE
ACTIVE AND KARACHI HAVE
5 MILLION, SO IT PROVIDES A
PETRI DISH FOR TERRORISM.
>> Woodruff: FOR AMERICANS
TRYING TO FOLLOW THIS, THERE ARE
MORE GROUPS THAN PEOPLE CAN KEEP
TRACK OF.
WHEN IT COMES TO THE ESSENTIAL
PAKISTAN TALIBAN AND THE
GOVERNMENT, HOW DO YOU SEE THEM
AS THEY FACE ONE ANOTHER, WHICH
ONE HAS THE UPPER HAND RIGHT
NOW?
>> I KIND OF THINK OF THESE
GROUPS AS A KALEIDOSCOPE IN
FLUX.
GIVE IT A TWIST, YOU GET ONE
PICTURE, GIVE IT ANOTHER TWIST,
YOU GET ANOTHER.
THE PAKISTAN ARE DIFFERENT THAN
THE AFGHAN TALIBAN.
THE PAKISTAN TALIBAN IS REALLY A
MISNOMER.
IT DOESN'T HAVE THE COMMAND AND
CONTROL.
IT'S CURRENT PUNITIVE LEADER IS
ACTUALLY ABSCONDING IN
AFGHANISTAN.
HE HASN'T REALLY BEEN HEARD FROM
IN QUITE SOME TIME, SO IT
DOESN'T HAVE THIS COHERNS.
PART OF THE PAKISTAN TALIBAN ARE
EAD DIETED
OVERTURNING THE STATE.
SOME CAN BE TURNED TO FIGHT
AGAINST US AND OUR ALLIES IN
AFGHANISTAN, AND THIS IS THE
PROBLEM WITH THE PAKISTAN
GOVERNMENT.
THERE IS THE STRATEGY OF THE
CIVILIAN BY AL-SHARIF.
HE IS SCARED TO DEATH OF THESE
GROUPS AND THEY CAN KILL HIM
WHENEVER THEY WANT AND HE KNOWS.
THIS ANOTHER PROBLEM, SOME OF
THE PARTIES THAT VOTE FOR HIM
HAVE SYMPATHIES, SO HE'S
CONSTRAINED.
THE ARMY HAS ITS OWN STRATEGY
WHICH IS TO FLIP THEM AND SEND
THEM TO AFGHANISTAN, BIG
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN WHAT THE
GOVERNMENT WANTS TO DO.
>> Woodruff: SEVERAL DIFFERENT
THREADS TO FOLLOW.
BUT SHUJA NAWAZ, THAT REHINES
MINDS US WHAT THE
DOING IS TRYING TO NEGOTIATE
WITH THE TALIBAN.
WHERE DOES THAT STAND?
>> THEY LAUNCHED A NEW INTERNAL
NATIONAL SECURITY POLICY THIS
YEAR AND AFTER THAT LAUNCHED
TALKS WITH THE TALIBAN THAT
SPUTTERED ON AND OFF.
THERE ISN'T A VERY CLEAR
DEFINITION OF THE AIM FOR THOSE
TALKS.
THEY'RE ALSO FOCUSED ON THE
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL
AREA WHICH BORDERS AFGHANISTAN
WHERE, AS I MENTIONED EARLIER,
KARACHI REMAINS A HOT BED OF
VIOLENCE AND PIN JAB ENDS UP AS
A HOT BED OF VIOLENCE.
THEY HAVE GROUPS INSIDE AND
OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY.
THEY NEED A MUCH CLEARER
DEFINITION OF WHAT THEY'RE
AIMING FOR IN THESE TALKS IF
THEY'RE GOING TO SUCCEED.
I DON'T THINK THEY CAN SUCCEED.
THERE'S ALSO A DIVISION BETWEEN
THE MILITARY AND CIVILIANS.
IS MILITARY REMAINED MUM ON THE
TALKS AND EXERCISED A VETO OF
SORTS.
>> Woodruff: TO PICK UP ON
THAT, CHRISTINE, YOU WERE
TALKING ABOUT THE SPLIT BETWEEN
THE MILITARY AND THE CIVILIANS.
>> TO, FROM MY POINT OF VIEW, I
HAVE BEEN MORE THAN A CRITIC OF
THESE TALKS.
WHAT'S INTERESTING IS THEY
ALWAYS HAVE THE SAME PLAYBOOK.
THE MILITANTS ALWAYS COME OUT ON
TOP.
PAKISTAN CIVILIAN LEADERS -- THE
TIMING IS COINCIDENTING THAT IT
OVERLAPPED WITH THE AFGHANISTAN
ELECTIONS.
THAT TELLS YOU MORE ABOUT WHAT
THE PAKISTAN ARMY WANTED THAN
ANYTHING ELSE BECAUSE THE
PAKISTAN ARMY'S IDEA OF
NEGOTIATING IS KILL INDIANS,
AFGHANS AND AMERICANS.
THE CIVILIANS ARE WILLING TO
MAKE CONCESSIONS BUT THE PROBLEM
IS THE TALIBAN HAVE BEEN CLEAR
THAT THEY DON'T WANT TO
NEGOTIATE WITHIN THE FRAME OF
PAKISTAN'S CONSTITUTION AND THAT
PUTS SHARIF IN A BIND.
PACTIONYS FOR BETTER OR WORSE,
THEY'RE COMMITTED TO THE TALKS
BEING WITHIN THE CONSTITUTION.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF DIFFERENT IN
OPINIONS ABOUT WHAT SHOULD BESTG
WITH THEM.
WE'LL LEAVE THERE AND THANK YOU
BOTH.
CHRISTINE FAIR AND SHUJA NAWAZ.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE VETERANS AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT TODAY RELEASED A NEW
AUDIT DOCUMENTING WIDESPREAD
DELAYED PATIENT CARE.
IT'S BASED ON A NATIONWIDE
REVIEW OF 731 OF IT'S HOSPITALS
AND OUTPATIENT CLINICS.
ACCORDING TO THE INTERNAL
REPORT, 57,000 VETERANS HAVE
BEEN WAITING 90 DAYS OR MORE FOR
THEIR FIRST MEDICAL APPOINTMENT.
64,000 OTHERS APPEAR TO HAVE
FALLEN THROUGH THE CRACKS, AFTER
ENROLLING WITH THE AGENCY AND
REQUESTING MEDICAL CARE.
AND IN ANOTHER MAJOR FINDING,
THIRTEEN PERCENT OF SCHEDULERS
SAID THEIR SUPERVISORS HAD ASKED
THEM TO FALSIFY APPOINTMENT
SCHEDULES TO MAKE THE WAIT TIMES
APPEAR SHORTER.
THE AUDIT ALSO FOUND THAT A 14
DAY TARGET FOR SCHEDULING
APPOINTMENTS WAS NOT ATTAINABLE,
AND ENCOURAGED SCHEDULERS TO
JOINING ME TO DISCUSS THE REPORT
ARE:
DR. SAM FOOTE, WHOSE COMPLAINTS
TO AN WAIT TIMES AND BOOKKEEPING
INVESTIGATION IN THAT AREA'S
V.A. SYSTEM.
HE WAS A V.A. DOCTOR FOR 24
YEARS.
AND RALPH IBSON, NATIONAL POLICY
DIRECTOR OF THE WOUNDED WARRIOR
PROJECT, WHICH PROVIDES SERVICES
TO VETERANS. HE PREVIOUSLY
SERVED AS THE V.A.'S DEPUTY
ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL.
DR. FOOTE, HOW DIRE IS THIS?
HOW WIDESPREAD?
ARE YOU SURPRISED AT WHAT YOU
SAW IN THIS REPORT?
>> I THINK I WAS SURPRISED SO
MANY GREAT INDIVIDUALS GAME
FORWARD, GS4s THROUGH 6s
BEING INTERYIEWD VIEWED BY
GS14s AND 15s.
AT LEAST ONE OR MORE EMPLOYEE
HAD GUTS ENOUGH TO SAY YES THEY
WERE GAMING THE SYSTEM ON
DESIRED DATES ON RETURN PATIENTS
AND 70% OF SYSTEMS HAD ONE OR
MORE BRAVES EMPLOYEES THAT SAID
THEY WERE FINDING WAYS AROUND
THE ELECTRONIC WAITING LIST.
>> Ifill: ARE YOU SURPRISED?
NOT SURPRISED IT WAS
HAPPENING BUT PLEASANTLY
SURPRISED THAT MANY PEOPLE SPOKE
UP IN THAT SITUATION.
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR?
WAS SURPRISE BID THE
GRAVITY AND SCOPE OF THE
PROBLEMS AND AGREE WITH
DR. FOOTE THAT IT TOOK COURAGE
FOR THESE MEN AND WOMEN TO COME
FORWARD AND SHARE THOSE
FINDINGS.
>> Ifill: IS THIS ONE OF THESE
THINGS THAT HAPPENS THAT
EVERYONE KNEW IT WAS HAPPENING?
THAT EVERYONE UNDERSTOOD THERE
WAS A PROBLEM BUT IT HADN'T
HAPPENED?
THAT NO ONE HAD JUST SAID
ANYTHING ABOUT IT?
COVERED IT UP?
>> I THINK WE HAVE BEEN WELL
AWARE THERE'S BEEN A
MISALIGNMENT BETWEEN PATIENT
NEED FOR CARE AND THE AVAILABLE
STAFFING TO PROVIDE THAT CARE.AD
HOW WIDESPREAD I HAVE TO NOR THE
EXTENT TO WHICH THE SYSTEM WAS
BEING GAMED.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO TALK TO
YOU ABOUT THE NUMBERS BECAUSE
THEY'RE AMAZING.
64,000 PEOPLE WERE ENROLLED IN
THE PROGRAM BUT NOT SEEN, NOT
SERVED OVER THE LAST DECADE, IN
ADDITION TO THE NUMBERS WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT BEFORE, AND YET, A
LOT OF THESE VETERANS ACTUALLY
WORSE, 96%.
WAS IT JUST THAT THE 4% WAS SO
EGREGIOUS?
>> NO.
WE WERE DOING PRETTY WELL UNTIL
ABOUT 2010 AND THEN THE DEMAND
JUST RAMPED UP AND RATHER THAN
OWN UP TO THE PROBLEM, THE V.A.
DECIDED TO COVER IT BECAUSE
THERE'S NO INCENTIVE FOR
WASHINGTON TO GET GOOD NUMBERS.
IF PHOENIX TURNS IN GOOD NUMBERS
AND SUSAN BOWERS IS HAPPY AS
DIVISION 18 DIRECTOR AND
EVERYBODY GETS THEIR BONUSES AND
SHE TURNS IN GOOD NUMBERS TO
WASHINGTON WHEN THEY ASK,
EVERYBODY SAYS EVERYTHING IS
GREAT.
SO NEVER WAS AN INCENTIVE.
IT WAS CHEAPER, EASIER AND QUICK
TORE FIX THE NUMBERS THAN THE
PROBLEM.
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU FIRSTED
RAISE THESE PROBLEMS, DR. FOOTE,
HOW WAS IT RECEIVED?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK THE
SAN DIEGO GUYS WHEN IT CAME OUT
WERE SHOCKED AND APPALLED BUT
THEY BASICALLY DID NOTHING AND
FROM MY STANDPOINT THE V.A.
COVERED IT UP.
I'M SING OF HEARING HOW PHOENIX
WAS CONFUSED HANDLING THE
WAITING LIST, CLERKS WERE
CONFUSED ABOUT THE THE DESIRE
DATES, CONFUSED ABOUT HOW TO
MAKE APPOINTMENTS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THE STUDY
ADDRESSED IS PEOPLE WERE NOT
CONFUSED.
THEY WERE BEING PRESSURED TO
FALSIFY DATETA.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE PROVIDER SLOTS
TO PUT THEM IN AND DIDN'T HAVE
SCHEDULES TO DO IT IN TIMELY
TAGS.
>> Ifill: HOW MUCH OF THIS WAS
WORKLOAD?
>> I THINK WORKLOAD IS A PIECERS
IT'S A CULTURE THAT DISCOURAGES
CANDOR AND EVEN IN SOME CASES
ENCOURAGED ETHICAL LAPSES.
>> Ifill: HOW ABOUT PHYSICIAN
SHORTAGES?
>> YES, I WOULD AGREE.
MANY OF THESE FACILITIES HAVE
MORE PATIENTS NEEDING CARE THAN
TH TAKE CARE OF
THOSE PATIENTS.
>> Ifill: WHY?
WE HAVE BOTH AN AGING VETERAN
POPULATION AND A COMPELLING NEED
ON THE PART OF VETERANS
RETURNING FROM WAR IN LARGE
NUMBERS WITH MULTIPLE MEDICAL
PROBLEMS AND A SYSTEM THAT JUST
WASN'T EQUIPPED AT ALL
FACILITIES TO HANDLE THAT.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
SYSTEM, DR. FOOTE.
HOW MUCH OF THIS IS DATED
TECHNOLOGY?
>> THE COMPUTER IS NOT THE
PROBLEM.
VISTA WORKS QUITE WELL IF YOU'RE
TRYING TO DO IT HONESTLY, BUT IT
WAS NEVER DESIGNED TO TRY TO
PREVENT PEOPLE WHO WERE GOING TO
DO THINGS INCORRECTLY TO DO IT.
AS FAR AS THE MEDICAL THING, THE
VIETNAM VETERANS DRAW THE
MEDICAL SIDE OF THE HOUSE AS
BABBABY BOOMERS AND RETURNING VS
ARE PUTTING A HUGE STRAIN ON
MENTAL HEALTH.
IN PHOENIX ONLY ABOUT HALF ARE
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIANS AND
MAYBE HALF INTERNESTS AND
THERE'S A SHORT SUPPLY OF
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIANS AND I
THINK THIS IS A NATIONWIDE
PROBLEM THAT WILL ONLY GET WORSE
BUT THE V.A. IS FEELING IT
FIRST.
>> Ifill: PART OF THE PROBLEM
APPARENT WILL IS ONE OF THE
FIXES THE LAST TIME WAS TO PUT
IN THE 14-DAY SCHEDULING, THAT
SOMEONE WOULD SEE A DOCTOR
WITHIN 14 DAYS, AND INSTEAD
TURNED INTO A REVERSE INCENTIVE
FOR PEOPLE TO MAKE UP SCHEDULING
TIMES.
HOW DO YOU KNOW ANY FIX RIGHT
NOW WON'T RESULT IN THE SAME
KIND OF PROBLEM?
>> I THINK WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO
GO AND I THINK, CERTAINLY,
CERTAINLY THE CENTRAL OFFICE
UNDERSTANDS THE GRAVITY OF THE
PROBLEM.
I DON'T THINK THESE ARE EASY
SOLUTIONS AND, AS DR. FOOTE
INDICATES, WE HAVE SHORTAGES OF
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIANS AND
SHORTAGES OF PSYCHIATRISTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
SO THIS IS GOING TO TAKE TIME
AND WE NEED TO KEEP AT IT.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO ASK YOU
ABOUT THE SOLUTIONS, THE V.A.
SUGGESTING AMONG THEM CREATING A
PATIENT SATISFACTION MATRIX,
CHANGING, SCHEDULING AND ACCESS,
PUTTING IN PLACE A HIRING FREEZE
TO GET SOME OFF THE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN DOING THESE THINGS
WRONG OUT OF THE OFFICE.
FIRST, WITH YOU, DO THESE SOUNDS
LIKE THE KINDS OF SOLUTIONS
WHICH CAN WORK?
>> I THINK THERE ARE STEPS IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
I DON'T WANT TO SUGGEST THESE
ARE A PANACEA.
AGAIN, WHAT'S IMPORTANT IS
LEADERSHIP AND CHANGING THAT
CULTURE.
AGAIN, THAT DOESN'T -- YOU KNOW,
BUILDING TRUST IN THE EMPLOYEES
TO HAVE THE COURAGE AS DR. FOOTE
INDICATED TO COME FORWARD AND
SAY WE ARE SO SHORT-STAFFED.
>> Ifill: DR. SAM FOOTE, WHAT
DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE SOLUTIONS
THE V.A. PUT OUT TODAY?
>> THE FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEM IS A
MISMATCH BETWEEN DEMAND AND
SUPPLY AND THE V.A. IS GOING TO
NEED TO TURN TO THE PRIVATE
SECTOR PRIMARILY FOR URGENT AND
EMERGENT CARE AND
HOSPITALIZATIONS.
V.A. DOES A GREAT JOB OF CHRONIC
CARE ON SCHEDULED APPOINTS,
THINGS LIKE DIABETES, HIGH BLOOD
PRESSURE, GETTING YOUR
MEDICATIONS, BUT THEY FALL DOWN
TERRIBLY ESPECIALLY OUT WEST AND
IN SPARSELY POPULATED AREAS
WHERE THERE ISN'T ANY
APPROPRIATE HOSPITAL LET ALONE A
V.A. ONE.
I WOULD DEFINITELY FAVOR
SOMETHING LIKE A MEDICARE CARD
THAT'S RUN LIKE MEDICARE AND NOT
REINVENT THE WHEEL FOR SOME TO
HAVE THE PATIENTS THAT LIVE FAR
AWAY AND DON'T USE THE V.A. FEE
BASIS SYSTEM FOR A NON-V.A. CARE
SYSTEM.
THAT TAKES MONTHS TO GET
APPROVAL FROM THE CENTER AND
MAYBE 6, 12, 18 MONTHS FOR
AUSTIN TO PAY IT.
YOU NEED SOMETHING WHERE THEY
CAN BILL THE VETICARE
IMMEDIATELY BECAUSE UNLESS YOU
HAVE A SENATOR ON ONE ARM AND AN
INVESTIGATIONAL TV CREW ON THE
OTHER, THEY'RE NOT GOING TO PAY
THAT BILL WHEN YOU GO INTO THE
HOSPITAL FOR EMERGENT CARE THAT
YOU NEED.
>> Ifill: SOME OF THAT IS
LEGISLATION MAKING ITS WAY
THROUGH CONGRESS AS WELL.
DR. SAM FOOTE AND RALPH IBSON,
POLICY DIRECTOR OF THE WOUNDED
WARRIOR PROJECT, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: EDUCATORS AND
LAWMAKERS ACROSS THE NATION ARE
ENGAGED IN ESCALATING DISPUTES
OVER A SET OF EDUCATION
STANDARDS KNOWN AS THE "COMMON
CORE."
THE RULES ONCE ENJOYED
WIDESPREAD BIPARTISAN SUPPORT,
BUT THAT IS ERODING.
JUST LAST WEEK, OKLAHOMA
GOVERNOR MARY FALLIN SIGNED ALL.
THAT FOLLOWED A SIMILAR MOVE BY
SOUTH CAROLINA GOVERNOR NIKKI
HALEY.
NOW, A THIRD REPUBLICAN
GOVERNOR, LOUISIANA'S BOBBY
JINDAL, IS HEADING IN THE SAME
DIRECTION.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM LOUISIANA
PUBLIC BROADCASTING'S SHAUNA
SANFORD.
IT'S PART OF A COLLABORATION
WITH OUR "AMERICAN GRADUATE
TEAM," A PUBLIC MEDIA INITIATIVE
FUNDED BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
>> Reporter: 17-YEAR-OLD
CHRISTIAN MYERS IN LOUISIANA
LOOKS LIKE A TYPICAL HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENT BUT HIS ENGLISH
CLASSROOM IS CONSIDERABLY
DIFFERENT THAN MOST.
IT'S HIS FAMILY'S KITCHEN TABLE.
CHRISTIAN IS HOME-SCHOOLED AND
HAD BEEN STUDYING NATHANIEL
HAWTHORN'S CLASSIC NOVEL "THE
SCARL ELT LETTER"WITH HIS
TEACHER AND MOTHER BETH.
WHEN SHE LOOKS AT HER CHILD,
WHAT BOTHERS HER?
>> Reporter: BETH IS A FORMER
ENGLISH AND LITERATURE TEACHER
AND LAST YEAR THEY BOTH DECIDED
HOME-SCHOOLING WAS THE BEST WAY
TO GET HIM READY FOR COLLEGE.
>> I NEVER THOUGHT ABOUT
HOME-SCHOOLING BEFORE, IN FACT I
HAD A NEGATIVE VIEW OF IT AS A
TEACHER BECAUSE A LOT OF TIMES
THE KIDS WHO CAME INTO MY
CLASSROOM WHO HAD BEEN
HOME-SCHOOLED WERE GENERALLY TWO
TO THREE YEARS BEHIND.
>> MEYERS SAID SHE CHANGED HER
MIND AFTEROUH
THE REST OF THE COUNTRY ADOPTED
AND BEGAN IMPLEMENTING THE
COMMON CORE STATE STANDARDS IN
2010.
COMMON CORE WAS DESIGNED BY
STATE LEADERS AND SCHOOL
SUPERINTENDENTS TO ENSURE
CHILDREN IN PARTICIPATING STATES
MET THE SAME MATH AND ENGLISH
BENCHMARKS FROM KINDERGARTEN
THROUGH HIGH SCHOOL.
ADVOCATES SAY THEY ARE MORE
RIGOROUS THAN PREVIOUS STANDARDS
AND WILL ENSURE BOTH PARENTS AND
STUDENTS OF THE QUALITY OF
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
BUT OPPONENTS LIKE MEYERS AREN'T
CONVINCED, ESPECIALLY, SHE SAYS,
AFTER SHE SAW WHAT HER SON WAS
STUDYING IN HIS COMMON CORE
APPROVED AMERICAN LITERATURE
TEXTBOOK AS PART OF THE NEW
CURRICULUM.
>> THE FIRST CHAPTER WAS
BOUNCING ALL OVER THE PLACE.
BEN FRANKLIN GOT TWO PARAGRAPHS
WITH A COUPLE OF PAGES OF, THEN
HE WAS BOUNCED INTO PAGES OF DAN
RATHER INTERVIEWING PEOPLE.
DIDN'T SEEM TO BE FOUNDATIONAL,
PHILOSOPHICAL MATERIAL THAT I
FEEL IS CRITICAL WEAN THEY GO TO
COLLEGE.
>> Reporter: BETH MYERS SINCE
JOINED A CHORUS OF VOICES
OPPOSED TO COMMON CORE IN
LOUISIANA AND HAS HEARD ABOUT
MANY OTHER PARENTS WHO ARE
THINKING ABOUT OR ACTUALLY
PULLING THEIR CHILDREN OUT OF
PUBLIC SCHOOL BECAUSE OF IT.
>> THANKS TO THE UNPRECEDENTED
COLLABORATION AMONG STATES,
YOUNG PEOPLE --
>> Reporter: BUT JUST AWARS AGOA
SET OF K-12 EDUCATIONAL
STANDARDS ENJOYED BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT.
GOVERNORS ACROSS THE COUNTRY GOT
BEHIND IT INCLUDING LOUISIANA'S
BOBBY JINDAL, A REPUBLICAN.
>> LET'S REACH HIGHER.
LET'S INVEST IN OUR TEACHERS --
>> Reporter: SOME BUSINESS
GROUPS AND LARGE EMPLOYERS IN
THE STATE INCLUDING EXXONMOBIL
CAME OUT IN FAVOR OF COMMON
CORE, TOO, SAYING LOUISIANA NEED
ADD BETTER-EDUCATED WORKFORCE.
>> IN LOUISIANA, WE STILL RANK
48th AMONGST HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATES OR HIGH SCHOOL
ACHIEVEMENT.
SO, TO ME, THAT'S STRUGGLING.
>> Reporter: EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE BLACK ALLIANCE
FOR ETI IN
LOUISIANA, ERIC LEWIS, AGREES.
LEWIS, WHO IS ALSO A PARENT OF
THREE, BELIEVES COMMON CORE
RAISES THE BAR FOR PUBLIC
SCHOOLS AND WILL MAKE LOUISIANA
STUDENTS MORE COMPETITIVE WITH
THEIR COUNTERPARTS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
THUS FAR, MORE THAN 40 STATES
HAVE ADOPTED THE COMMON CORE.
>> WE'VE GOT TO MAKE SURE OUR
CHILDREN ARE ABLE TO TO BE
PRODUCTIVE CITIZENS BUT THAT
THEY'RE ALSO PREPARED TO THRIVE
IN A GLOBAL WORLD IN THE YEARS
TO COME.
>> Reporter: BUT LEWIS AND
OTHER SUPPORTERS ARE HAVING TO
FIGHT TO KEEP COMMON CORE IN
LOUISIANA SCHOOLS.
ORIGINALLY, A MAJORITY OF STATES
SIGNED ON TO COMMON CORE BUT
EARLIER THIS YEAR, INDIANA WAS
THE FIRST TO BACK OUT AND, NOW,
AS OPPOSITION GROWS IN
LOUISIANA, SOME STATE LAWMAKERS
HAVE PUSHED TO DO THE SAME.
>> ANY OBJECT?
>> Reporter: THIS YEAR
WHATEVER BILLS WERE APPEALED
INTRODUCED IT IN THE
LEGISLATURE.
PARENTS AND EDUCATORS AGAINST
COMMON CORE SUPPORTED THE MOVE.
THIS MOTHER BEGAN HOME SCHOOLING
HER TWO YOUNG SONS LAST YEAR
AFTER LEARNING MORE ABOUT THE
STANDARDS.
>> THE MAIN BIG PROBLEM I AM
FINDING AND I BELIEVE IS THERE'S
NO MORE LOCAL CONTROL.
>> Reporter: EVEN THOUGH THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DIDN'T
DEVELOP COMMON CORE, THE
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT DID PROVIDE
STATES FINANCIAL INCENTIVES TO
ADOPT THE STANDARDS AND IS
FUNDING THE CREATION OF THE
ASSESSMENT TESTS.
THOSE TESTS WILL MEASURE, IN
PART, HOW WELL STUDENTS ARE
MEETING THOSE STANDARDS AND THAT
WORRIES DUTCH.
>> STANDARDS ALWAYS DRIVE
CURRICULUM, I DON'T CARE WHAT
THEY SAY.
AS A TEACHER YOU KNOW THAT
STANDARDS DRIVE CURRICULUM.
>> Reporter: THE PUSHBACK
NSEEN SO
STRONG IN ST. TAMMANY PARISH
WHERE DUTCH LIVES THAT THE
SCHOOL VOTED LAST YEAR ON A
RESOLUTION URGING THE STATE TO
DROP THE STANDARDS ALL TOGETHER.
>> THE ST. TAMMANY PARISH SCHOOL
BOARD OPPOSED THE COMMON CORE
STATE STANDARDS SINCE THE IDEA
WAS FIRST INTRODUCED --
>> Reporter: DESPITE THAT
RESOLUTION AND A LAST-MINUTE
APPARENT CHANGE OF HEART BY
GOVERNOR JINDAL, NONE OF THE
BILLS PASSED.
IN AN OP-ED PUBLISHED IN UA.
TODAY, JINDAL EXPLAINED HIS NEW
THOUGHTS ABOUT COMMON CORE.
CENTRALIZED PLANNING DIDN'T WORK
IN RUSSIA, IT'S NOT WORKING WITH
OUR HEALTHCARE SYSTEM, AND IT
WON'T WORK IN EDUCATION.
AND, HE SAID, IF THE FEDS
DICTATE THE STANDARDS OF
MEASURE, THE LOCAL CURRICULA
WILL HAVE NO CHOICE BUT TO
FOLLOW.
>> WE WANT THE GOVERNOR TO KNOW
THAT WE AS PARENTS ARE IN
SUPPORT OF COMMON CORE --
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNOR'S
ABOUT-FACE DIDN'T FIT WITH
EVERYONE INCLUDING YOLANDA
BRAXTON, THE MOTHER OF THREE
PUBLIC SCHOOL STUDENTS LED THIS
GROUP OF PARENTS AND EDUCATORS
TO LOUISIANA'S STATE CAPITOL.
>> WITH COMMON CORE, IT BEGINS
TO HOLD PEOPLE ACCOUNTABLE, NOT
JUST ONE PERSON, BUT EVERYBODY
IS HELD ACCOUNTABLE TO DOING
WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE FOR THE
KIDS.
AND ACCOUNTABILITY IS IMPORTANT.
>> Reporter: DEMAND TASKED IN
MANY WAYS WITH IMPLEMENTING
COMMON CORE IN LOUISIANA IS
STATE SUPERINTENDENT JOHN WHITE.
HE ANNOUNCED HE DELAYED BY TWO
YEARS THE DATE WHEN STUDENTS,
TEACHERS AND SCHOOLS WILL BE
JUDGED.
SAYING IT GIVES DISTRICT MORE
TIME TO PREPARE.
EVEN SO, HE STRONGLY SUPPORTS
COMMON CORE AND BELIEVES BACKING
OUT WOULD BE A BIG MISTAKE.
>> IMAGINE OUR STATE SAID TO THE
REST OF THE COUNTRY, WE DON'T
THINK OUR KIDS ARE CAPABLE OF
BEING EDUCATED TO THE STANDARD
AS HIGH AS CALIFORNIA'S OR
NEW YORK'S OR ANYWHERE ELSE IN
BETWEEN.
WHAT WOULD IT SAY TO COMPANIES
THINKING ABOUT DOING BUSINESS
HERE, EMPLOYEES THINKING ABOUT
MOVING HERE AND SAY TO OUR
FAMILIES HERE UT OF
COMPANIES OPERATING IN
LOUISIANA.
>> Reporter: AT THE MYERS'
HOMES IN DENIM SPRINGS, BOTH
MOTHER AND SON ARE HAPPY WITH
HOME-SCHOOLING.
CHRISTIAN, WHO STRUGGLES WITH
A.D.H.D. SAYS HE AND HIS MOM
FIGURED OUT A PACE THAT WORKS
FOR BOTH OF THEM.
EVENTUALLY CHRISTIAN WANTS TO BE
A NURSE ANESTHETIST, BUT FOR NOW
HIS FOCUS IS ON FINISHING HIGH
SCHOOL WHICH HE SHOULD BE ABLE
TO DO NEXT YEAR.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN FIND MORE
ON THE COMMON CORE STANDARDS,
THE POLITICAL BATTLES AND
EFFECTS ON TEACHING AND LEARNING
ON OUR WEBSITE.
CLICK ON THE EDUCATION TAB.
>> Ifill: STUDENT DEBT IN
AMERICA HAS MORE THAN TRIPLED IN
JUST THE PAST DECADE, AND
EXPERTS SAY TOO MUCH DEBT CAN
PUT A CRIMP ON GRADUATES'
FUTURES.
IT'S AN ISSUE THAT DEMOCRATS,
PARTICULARLY THE PRESIDENT, HAVE
TARGETED FOR NEW REMEDIES.
IT WAS THE FOCUS OF HIS LATEST
EXECUTIVE ACTION TODAY.
>> Ifill: IT'S THE SEASON FOR
"POMP AND CIRCUMSTANCE."
TRIUMPHANT GRADUATIONS, CAP
TOSSING.
AND A REMINDER THAT ALTHOUGH
COLLEGE MAY BE OVER, THE BILLS
ARE JUST NOW COMING DUE.
THE AVERAGE STUDENT WHO
GRADUATED LAST YEAR HAD NEARLY
$30,000 DOLLARS IN STUDENT LOAN
DEBT.
TODAY, IN THE WHITE HOUSE EAST
ROOM, PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED AN
EXECUTIVE ORDER THAT WOULD ALLOW
BORROWERS WHO TOOK OUT FEDERAL
LOANS PRIOR TO 2007 TO TIE THEIR
REPAYMENTS TO THEIR INCOMES.
>> LET'S BE HONEST FAMILIES AT
THE TOP, THEY CAN EASILY SAV
MORE THAN ENOUGH MONEY TO PAY
FOR SCHOOL OUT OF POCKET.
FAMILIES AT THE BOTTOM FACE A
LOT OF OBSTACLES BUT THEY CAN
TURN TO PROGRAMS DESIGNED TO
HELP HANDLE COSTS, BUT YOU'VE
GOT A LOT OF MIDDLE CLASS
FAMILIES WHO CAN'T BUILD UP
ENOUGH SAVINGS, DON'T QUALIFY
FOR SUPPORT, FEEL LIKE NOBODY IS
LOOKING OUT FOR THEM.
>> Ifill: THE PROGRAM WOULD
EXPAND ON 2010 LAW THAT CAPPED
FEDERAL LOAN REPAYMENTS AT 10
PERCENT OF THEIR MONTHLY INCOME,
WHILE ALLOWING LOW-INCOME
BORROWERS TO HAVE THEIR LOANS
FORGIVEN AFTER 20 OR 25 YEARS OF
ON-TIME PAYMENTS.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS UP TO FIVE
MILLION FORMER STUDENTS WOULD
BENEFIT, PROVIDING A BOOST TO
THE OVERALL ECONOMY.
HE ALSO CAST HIS PLAN IN
POLITICAL TERMS, CHALLENGING
REPUBLICANS TO SUPPORT HIM.
>> IF YOU'RE A BIG OIL COMPANY
THEY'LL GO TO BAT FOR YOU, IF
YOU'RE A STUDENT, TOUGH LUCK.
>> Ifill: AMERICANS ARE NOW
CARRYING STUDENT LOAN DEBT OF
OVER $1 TRILLION, $125 BILLION
OF IT ADDED JUST IN THE FIRST
THREE MONTHS OF THIS YEAR.
>> Ifill: SOME REPUBLICANS
CRITICIZED THE PRESIDENT'S PLAN.
SENATOR LAMAR ALEXANDER OF
TENNESSEE TOLD THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL:
SO WHAT, IF ANYTHING, COULD THIS
APPROACH DO TO HELP EASE THE
GROWING PROBLEM OF STUDENT LOAN
DEBT.
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO DEANNE
LOONIN, WHO LEADS THE STUDENT
BORROWER PROGRAM AT THE NATIONAL
CONSUMER LAW CENTER.
AND RICHARD VEDDER, PROFESSOR OF
ECONOMICS AT OHIO UNIVERSITY AND
DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR
COLLEGE AFFORDABILITY AND
PRODUCTIVITY.
PROFESSOR, TODAY OPINIONS
TALKING TO A RECENT COLLEGE
GRADUATE WHO SAYS SHE OWES
$100,000 IN SCHOOL LOANS AND
JUST GRADUATED LAST YEAR.
HOW DEEP AND WIDE IS THIS
PROBLEM?
>> WELL, THAT'S A LITTLE
ATYPICAL FOR AN UNDERGRADUATE TO
GRADUATE WITH $100,000 IN DEBT,
BUT IT IS A SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM
WHEN YOU HAVE 40 MILLION
AMERICANS HAVING DEBT TO THE
GOVERNMENT, AND THIS DEBT NOW IS
GREATER THAN THE DEBT ON CAR
LOANS, ON CREDIT CARDS, HOME
EQUITY LOANS.
THIS IS THE LARGEST FORM OF DEBT
IN THE UNITED STATES EXCEPT FOR
HOME MORTGAGES.
SO IT'S BECOME A WIDESPREAD
ISSUE, AND IT'S NOT SURPRISING
THAT IT'S SURFACING AS A
POLITICAL ISSUE IN THIS ELECTION
YEAR.
>> Ifill: DEANNE LOONIN, IS
WHAT THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSING
SHIFTING THE BURDEN FROM THE
STUDENT TO THE TAXPAYER?
>> NO, I WOULDN'T LOOK AT IT
THAT WAY.
I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY AER ARE
GOOD INVESTMENT IN STUDENTS SO
THAT STUDENTS ARE MORE LIKELY TO
SUCCEED, AND WHEN STUDENTS AFTER
COLLEGE ARE MORE LIKELY TO
SUCCEED, THAT BENEFITS
TAXPAYERS, BENEFITS SOCIETY,
BENEFITS EVERYONE.
>> BUT YOU HEARD WHAT SENATOR
ALEXANDER SAID ABOUT THE COST
AND THE WHITE HOUSE SAID TODAY
WE'RE STILL DOING RULEMAKING AND
WE DON'T KNOW TOSTS YET.
BUT GIVEN WHAT THEY'VE DONE SO
FAR, IS THERE A WAY TO PUT A
PRICE TAG ON SOMETHING LIKE
THIS?
>> THERE MAY BE SOME ADDITIONAL
SHORT-TERM COST AND I THINK WE
WANT TO HEAR MORE ABOUT THAT.
BUT AGAIN WE NEED TO LOOK AT THE
COST ISSUE IN A MORE
COMPREHENSIVE WAY.
IF THE BORROWERS ARE MORE ABLE
TO HANDLE THE DEBT BURDENS AND
LIKELY TO SUCCEED, THAT'S AN
INCREMENT IN STUDENTS AND
STUDENT BORROWERS, AND INSTEAD
OF MONEY GOING TO THE PRIVATE
SERVICES TO COLLECT THEM FROM
BORROWERS IF THEY'RE SO
DISTRESSED THEY CAN'T AFFORD
THEIR BASEMENTS.
>> Ifill: HOW MUCH A BITE
WOULD THIS APPROACH TAKE OUT OF
THE PROBLEM, PROFESSOR?
>> WELL, I THINK THIS IS NOT
DEALING WITH THE REAL ROOT CAUSE
OF THE PROBLEM.
THE THE REAL ROOT CAUSE OF THE
PROBLEM, THE REASON THERE'S SO
MUCH STUDENT DEBT, OVER
$1 TRILLION TO BEGIN WITH, IS
TUITION FEES AND COLLEGE COSTS
IN GENERAL HAVE BEEN RISING
ALMOST EXPONENTIALLY AND AT AN
EVER FASTER RATE OF INCREASE IN
THE LAST SEVERAL DECADES.
THIS IS DEALING WITH -- IS NOT
DEALING WITH THE PROBLEM IN A
FUNDAMENTAL SENSE.
IT'S A PANACEA THAT WAS
ADDRESSING THE SHORT-RUN
PROBLEMS OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
DISTRESSED.
IT'S NOT DEALING WITH THE
LONG-TERM PROBLEM OF HOW DO WE
GET OUT OF THIS MESS WHICH IS
STILL GROWING AND WILL CONTINUE
TO GROW AND THIS DOES NOTHING TO
STOP THAT.
>> Ifill: DEANNE LOONIN, WHAT
ABOUT THAT?
IF THE COSTS KEEP GOING UP,
WHAT'S THE POINT IN JUST
FORGIVING LOANS?
>> ABSOLUTELY RIGHT, IT'S NOT
THE ENTIRE SOLUTION, IT'S A
PIECE OF THE PUZZLE, BUT THAT
DOESN'T MEAN WE SHOULD TRY TO
PUT THE PIECE OF THE PUZZLE IN.
BORROWERS ARE SUFFERING NOW.
STUDENTS ARE HAVING TROUBLE WITH
THE DEBT TO INCOME RATIOS, WE
NEED RELIEF TO BORROWERS AND THE
PRESIDENT IS TAKING STEPS TO DO
THAT BUT THERE IS CERTAINLY MORE
TO BE DONE INCLUDING
ACCOUNTABILITY FROM THE SCHOOLS
THEMSELVES TO KEEP COSTS DOWN.
>> Ifill: LES LET'S TALK LONG-TM
SOLUTIONS, RICHARD VEDDER, WHAT
DO YOU SUGGEST?
>> I WOULD AGREE WITH THE LAST
COMMENT DEANA MADE IS MAYBE IT'S
TIME FOR COLLEGES TO HAVE SKIN
IN THE GAME SO WHEN THEY HAVE
HIGH DEFAULT RATES AMONG THE
GRADUATES, FOR EXAMPLE, THE
COLLEGES THEMSELVES SHOULD HELP
PICK UP SOME OF THE COSTS.
FRANKLY, I THINK WE'RE HAVING A
PROBLEM WHERE IN SOME WAYS WE'RE
NOT UNDERINVESTING IN HIGHER
EDUCATION BUT OVERINVESTED.
WE HAVE LOTS OF STUDENTS
GRADUATING FROM COLLEGE TODAY
THAT ARE UNDEREMPLOYED, TAKING
JOBS PAYING RELATIVELY LOW
WAGES, AND WE HAVE A SERIOUS
PROBLEM THERE.
NONE OF THIS IS DEALING WITH ANY
OF THAT.
SO I HAVE SOME CONCERNS WE ARE
DEALING WITH THE SYMPTOMS BUT
NOT THE REAL PROBLEM OR DISEASE
AND WE NEED TO ADDRESS THAT.
PART OF THE PROBLEM IS THE
STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM ITSELF
WHICH ENABLES COLLEGES TO RAISE
TUITION FEES AND ALMOST INVITES
THEM TO RAISE TUITION FEES,
CREATING AN ACADEMIC ARMS RACE
WHICH I THINK HAS BECOME VERY
COSTLY, VERY INEFFICIENT AND
VERY HARMFUL, PARTICULARLY TO
LOWER-INCOME PEOPLE.
>> WELL, DEANNA, WE WERE JUST
TALKING TO THE VETERANS AFFAIRS
ABOUT REVERSING INCENTIVES.
I WONDER IF THAT'S WHAT'S
HAPPENING HERE, YOU KEEP SAYING
WE'LL FORGIVE YOUR LOANS YOU
WON'T HAVE TO PAY BUT A
PERCENTAGE OF TO REPAY THEM AND
THEN YOU BORROW MORE AND MORE.
IS THAT A PROBLEM?
>> WE WORK WITH BORROWERS HERE
IN MASSACHUSETTS AND WE DON'T
SEE THAT AS A PROBLEM.
IT MAY BE A PROBLEM IN SOME WAYS
BUT, FOR THE MOST PART, THESE
ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO
BETTER THEIR LIVES AND THEIR
FAMILY'S LIVES AND WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE THERE IS ACCESS TO
THAT OPPORTUNITY FOR AS MANY
PEOPLE AS POSSIBLE.
YES, THERE'S RESPONSIBILITY ON
THE PART OF THE BORROWERS BUT
BASICALLY ALL OF THE RISK IS
FALLING ON THE BORROWERS, SO THE
IDEA IS MORE RISK SHARING.
LET'S GET THE INSTITUTIONS MORE
ACCOUNT B, LET'S GET THE PRIVATE
CONTRACTORS THAT ARE PROFITING
FROM THE SYSTEM MORE
ACCOUNTABLE, AND LOOK AT THE
COSTS IN THAT WAY MORE
HOLISTICALLY.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT IT AS AN
INVESTMENT IN OUR FUTURE, THEN I
THINK IT'S A VERY GOOD
INVESTMENT.
>> Ifill: SO YOU DON'T THINK
INVESTMENT AS PROFESSOR VEDDER
IS SUGGESTING IS MISPLACED?
>> NO, I DON'T.
I DO THINK, AGAIN, THAT THERE'S
A LOT OF SCHOOLS THAT HAVE --
THERE'S NOT BEEN ENOUGH
OVERSIGHT, THEY DON'T HAVE GOOD
ALCA MEASURES, THEY HAVE TOO
MANY STUDENTS DEFAULTING ON
THEIR LOANS.
SO LET'S MAKE SURE THE S
ARE ACCOUNTABLE AND IF THEY HAVE
OTHER STANDARDS WHERE WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE THEIR STUDENTS ARE
LIKELY TO SUCCEED, THERE ARE
WAYS TO DEAL WITH THAT PROBLEM,
BUT WE DON'T WANT TO HAVE THAT
IMPEDE OPPORTUNITY FOR THE MOST
VULNERABLE BORROWERS AND FRANKLY
FOR BORROWERS IN GENERAL.
>> THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
TONY AWARD-WINNING PORTRAYAL OF
PRESIDENT LYNDON B. JOHNSON.
LAST NIGHTTO
TOOK THE PRIZE FOR LEADING ACTOR
IN A PLAY.
THE DRAMA ALSO WON FOR BEST
PLAY.
EARLIER THIS SPRING, JEFFREY
BROWN CAUGHT UP WITH CRANSTON AS
HE WAS GETTING WIDE ACCLAIM FOR
HIS BROADWAY DEBUT.
HERE'S A SECOND LOOK.
IS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
ERECTION OF YOUR LIFETIME AND
THE CHOICES COULDN'T BE CLEARER!
>> LYNDON B. JOHNSON, AMBITIOUS,
IMPATIENT, TORTURED AND TROUBLED
IN A MILLION DIFFERENT WAYS,
WHILE CAPTURED BY ACTOR BRYAN
CRANSTON.
>> HIM AND THE REST OF HIS
HARVARD BLUE BLOODS WOULD LOOK
DOWN THEIR NOSE AT ME LIKE I WAS
SOME KIND OF COUNTRY BUMPKIN!
>> IN THREE HOURS, YOU SEE HIM
GO THROUGH A MYRIAD OF EMOTIONS.
IT'S RARE TO HAVE A CHARACTER OF
THAT SCOPE.
I'M GRATEFUL FOR IT.
>> THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE
CONSTITUTION!
THIS IS ABOUT THOSE WHO GOT MORE
WANTING TO HANG ON TO WHAT THEY
GOT!
>> THE PLAY CALLED "ALL THE WAY"
OPENED ON BROADWAY IN MARCH
WRITTEN BY ROBERT SHANKEN, IT'S
A LOOK BACK AT 1964, PRESIDENT
JOHNSON'S FIRST YEAR IN OFFICE
AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF JOHN
F. KENNEDY, A TUMULTUOUS TIME
FOR THE PRESIDENCY AND THE
ENTIRE NATION.
>> WE HAVE PEOPLE IN THIS
COUNTRY LIVING IN UNBELIEVABLE
POVERTY!
I KNOW!
I GREW UP LIKE THAT IN THE HILL
COUNTRY.
>> I SAW YOU LAST NIGHT AND I
SAW THIS CHARACTER, YOU KNOW,
NECK OUT, SHOULDERS UP --
>> THAT WAS MY VERSION OF L.B.J.
I MEAN, IT REALLY IS A VERSION
OF HIM BECAUSE YOU DON'T WANT TO
TRY TO TAKE ON THE CHARACTER
SPECIFICALLY IN THE SENSE
THAT -- TO DO AN IMPERSONATION.
YOU KNOW, I JUST WANT TO GET THE
SENSE OF WHO HE IS AND ALLOW
THAT CHARACTER JUST TO BE
ABSORBED INTO ME, YOU KNOW.
SO I'M ABLE TO THEN LET HIM
LOOSE ON STAGE.
>> KEEPS SLOWING, NO MATTER
WHAT.
>> NOW 58, CRANSTON IS BEST
KNOWN FOR "BREAKING BAD."
HE GREW UP IN LOS ANGELES,
PARENTS WERE BOTH ACTORS.
BUT HE FIRST THOUGHT ABOUT
BECOMING AN ACTOR, TAKING ACTING
CLASSES IN HIS 20s AND BEGAN
WITH COMMERCIALS.
AND SMALL ROLES ON TV.
>> I DON'T HAVE MUCH MONEY.
(LAUGHTER)
>> HE PLAYED A DENTIST WITH AN
OFF-COLOR SENSE OF HUMOR IN
SEINFELD.
>> WHERE IS JENNIFER TODAY?
HIS NEARLY SEVEN-YEAR STINT
ON "MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE" AS
KOOKY FATHER INCREASED HIS
PROFILE.
BUT IT WAS THE WILDLY PRAISED
AND POPULAR SHOW "BREAKING BAD"
THAT FINALLY MADE CRANSTON A
STAR.
>> SAY MY NAME.
CRANSTON WON THREE EMMIS AS
WALTER WHITE, CHEMISTRY TEACHER
TURNED METH DEALER AND DRUG
LORD.
BEING SO IDENTIFIED AS ONE
CHARACTER CAN BE A DOUBLE-EDGED
SWORD.
>> IT CAN IF YOU SUCCUMB TO THAT
KIND OF, YOU KNOW, EASY OUT.
WHEN MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE ENDED
AFTER SEVEN YEARS, I WAS OFFERED
TWO PILOTS ON TV FOR GOOFY DADS.
IT WAS SURPRISING TO THE PEOPLE
WHO OFFERED IT BECAUSE THEY FELT
I WAS PERFECT FOR IT.
I THOUGHT, I'M NOT GOING TO HELP
YOU PUT ME IN A BOX.
WHERE DO YOU SUPPOSE THIS CAME
FROM?
>> THAT'S WHY CRANSTON CHOSE
THIS LATEST ROLE, HIS FIRST TIME
ON BROADWAY AND A CHANCE TO TAKE
ON A MULTI-DIMENSIONAL CHARACTER
CAUGHT IN THE TIDE OF HISTORY.
>> I'M GOING, LET SOMEBODY ELSE
DEAL WIT.
>> NO, YOU'RE NOT!
YES, I AM.
NO, YOU ARE NOT GOING TO
RESIGN!
>> YOU NEVER KNEW WHICH L.B.J.
YOU WOULD GET WHEN YOU WALKED
INTO THEOFFS.
>> I JUST LOVE THOSE KIDS OF
MINE.
>> HE COULD BE HIGH, LOW, ANGRY,
HAPPY, AND YOU JUST HAD TO DEAL
WITH
>> WHAT DO YOU THINK AFTER THIS
CIVIL RIGHTS DEAL OF MINE?
>> MUCH FOCUSES ON THE CIVIL
RIGHTS ACT OF 1964.
PART OF JOHNSON'S LEGACY OF
LEGISLATIVE ACHIEVEMENT THAT'S
BEING REMEMBERED AND CELEBRATED
NOW, 50 YEARS LATER.
AND BEFORE HE WAS WORN DOWN ANDE
VIETNAM WAR.
DO YOU FEEL YOURSELF PART OF
THAT LOOKING BACK AT THE LEGACY
AND THEREFORE SOME
RESPONSIBILITY TO THAT HISTORY?
>> THERE'S A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF
OWNERSHIP THAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU
TAKE ON A CHARACTER.
YOU ABSORB AS MUCH SOURCE
MATERIAL AS YOU POSSIBLY CAN.
IT'S LIKE YOU'RE MAKING A
BOUQUET.
YOU'RE TAKING BITS AND PIECES
FROM EACH MATERIAL THAT RESONATE
WITH YOU AND YOU'RE CRAFTING
YOUR OWN L.B.J., OR WHOMEVER
THAT CHARACTER WOULD BE.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHERE I READ IT
BUT HE HAD A STANDING
APPOINTMENT TO GET A MASSAGE
EVERY NIGHT AT THE WHITE HOUSE
AND HE CALLED IT A RUB DOWN.
HE'D GET HIMSELF A RUB DOWN.
AND THAT INFORMED A COUPLE OF
THINGS.
I THOUGHT, HE MUST HAVE BEEN
TIGHTLY WOUND.
SO I GAVE HIM A BACK ISSUE IN
THE PLAY.
>> Brown: INDEED, THE FISCAL
TRANSFORMATION CRANSTON GOES
THROUGH IS STRIKING.
BACK HUNDRED -67D, FACE
SCRUNCHED AS JOHNSON CAJOLES,
SWEET TALKS AND THREATENS
LEGISLATORS TO GET HIS WAY, THE
FAMOUS JOHNSON TREATMENT, AS
HERE WITH HIS FUTURE
VICE PRESIDENT, HUBERT HUMPHREY.
>> THIS IS ABOUT VOTES!
YOU KNOW THAT'S A PROBLEM WITH
YOU LIBERALS.
YOU DON'T KNOW HOW TO FIGHT!
YOU WANT TO GET SOMETHING DONE
IN THE REAL WORLD, HUBERT,
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO GET YOUR
HANDS WET!
NOW YOU CALL YOURSELF THE LEADER
OF THE LIBERAL WING TO HAVE THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY THEN SHOW ME
SOME DAMN LEADERSHIP!
>> WE'RE DOING THE TOWERING,
LOOKING DOWN.
>> Brown: IS IT FUN TO DO?
IT'S A LOT OF FUN TO DO.
>> Brown: IS IT?
SURE!
ANYTIME A MAN CAN BOASTFULLY BE
INTIMIDATING, YOU KNOW, THAT'S
FUN TO DO.
I LEAN INTO YOU A LITTLE BIT AND
SAY, NOW, FIRST TIME I SAY
SOMETHING LIKE, HOW'S YOUR WIFE?
AND I WOULD REMEMBER HER NAME.
SHE'S SUCH A PRETTY LADY.
YOU'RE A LUCKY, LUCKY MAN.
>> Brown: I'M SMILING AND
HAPPY.
>> THEN I SAY, NOW, WE NEED TO
BE ABLE TO GET THIS DONE, NOW,
DON'T DISAPPOINT ME.
>> Brown: I'M SAYING, YES,
SIR, TO ANYTHING.
>> YES, BECAUSE I HOOK YOU IN.
HE WAS UNCANNY WITH HIS
POLITICAL SAVVY.
>> Brown: CRANSTON SAYS HE'S
GRATEFUL FOR THE STARDOM THAT
GIVES HIM THE ABILITY TO PICK
HIS ROLES BUT COMES OFF AS AN
UNTORTURED SOLE WHO WAS HAPPY
BEING ABLE TO BUILD A LIFE-LONG
CAREER DOING EXACTLY WHAT HE
WANTS.
DID YOU HAVE TIMES ALONG THE WAY
THAT YOU THOUGHT MAYBE THIS
WON'T HAPPEN LIKE YOU HOPED?
>> NO BROWN WHEREIN YOU DIDN'T?
, BECAUSE MY GOALS ARE NOT
TO BE A STAR OR FAMOUS.
BY THE TIME I WAS 25, I STARTED
WORKING EXCLUSIVELY AS AN ACTOR,
AND I'M 58 NOW, AND THAT'S ALL
I'VE DONE SINCE I WAS 25 YEARS
OLD, AND THAT'S MY PROUDEST
MOMENT THAT I CAN SAY I'M A
WORKING ACTOR, I MAKE MY LIVING
AS AN ACTOR, AND THAT'S IT.
NOW, WHATEVER HAPPENS HAPPENS.
I MARCH INTO A BRIGHT FUTURE OR
RETREAT INTO A DARK PAST!
>> Brown: WHAT HAPPENS NEXT
FOR BRYAN CRANSTON?
WELL, "ALL THE WAY" RUNS THROUGH
THE END OF JUNE.
HE'S WRITING A MEMOIR DUE OUT
NEXT YEAR AND PLAYS A SCIENTIST
IN THE NEW MOVIE GOD ZILLA.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A NATIONAL AUDIT BY THE VETERANS
AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT FOUND
57,000 VETS HAVE BEEN WAITING
THREE MONTHS OR LONGER TO GET
CARE AT V.A. HOSPITALS.
AND THE TALIBAN THREATENED MORE
VIOLENCE IN PAKISTAN AFTER A
SUNDAY ASSAULT KILLED
29 PEOPLE AT THE COUNTRY'S
BUSIEST AIRPORT.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, SIX MILLION
PEOPLE HAVE GAINED MEDICAID
COVERAGE SINCE SEPTEMBER, MOSTLY
THANKS TO THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT, MORE THAN 1.7 MILLION MORE
ARE STILL WAITING FOR THEIR
APPLICATIONS TO BE PROCESSED,
ACCORDING TO A NEW REPORT.
READ WHAT STATES ARE DOING TO
COMBAT THE BACKLOG, FROM OUR
PARTNER KAISER HEALTH NEWS,
THAT'S ON OUR RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: BEFORE WE GO, AN
EDITOR'S NOTE:
OUR REPORT FRIDAY ON THE BOOK
INDUSTRY STATED THAT MEMBERSHIP
AT THE AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS
ASSOCIATION HAD GROWN TO 664
THIS YEAR.
THE NUMBER IS IN FACT 1,664
INDEPENDENT BOOKSELLERS,
OP,000
LOCATIONS, THE MOST SINCE 2005.
WE APOLOGIZE FOR THAT.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.